Add a blog post for February Update (#3256)
pipe-cd/pipecd: docs/content/en/blog/news/february-2022-update.md

---
date: 2022-02-10
title: "February 2022 update"
linkTitle: "February 2022 update"

> weight: 996

Reviewer: ```suggestion
weight: 995
```
should be

description: "Development status update to recap what happened in January"
author: Le Van Nghia ([@nghialv](https://twitter.com/nghialv2607))
---

_Published by the PipeCD dev team every month, this update will provide you with news and updates about the project! Please click [here](/blog/2022/01/05/january-2022-update/) if you want to see the last status update._

### What's changed
---

> Since the last report, PipeCD team has introduced 4 releases ([v0.24.0](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/v0.24.0), [v0.24.5](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/v0.24.5), [v0.25.0](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/v0.25.0), [v0.25.1](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/v0.25.1)). This blog post walks you through their notable changes. For all other changes, please check out each release note to see.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the last report, PipeCD team has introduced 4 releases ([v0.24.0](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/v0.24.0), [v0.24.5](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/v0.24.5), [v0.25.0](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/v0.25.0), [v0.25.1](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/releases/tag/v0.25.1)). This blog post walks you through their notable changes. For all other changes, please check out each release note.
```
nits

#### Introducing Label mechanism

Label concept has been introduced. Labels are key/value pairs that are attached to PipeCD resources such as application, deployment... As a developer, you can use labels to add identifying attributes to them. We believe that supporting the Label will give us more flexibility on grouping, filtering as well as managing access control on PipeCD resources.

Application labels can be specified via the `labels` field in the application configuration file while deployment labels are inherited from its application.

```yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: KubernetesApp
spec:
  name: example
  labels:
    env: prod
    team: product
```

From `v0.24.0`, application labels are shown on the application list and detail page. All filter forms also have a new label box to allow filtering resources by their labels.

#### Environment and Deployment Configuration File were deprecated

> Since the Label was introduced as above, Environment was becoming a subset of the Label concept. So we decided to deprecate the Environment concept from `v0.24.0`. Although it is still being displayed on the web console, it will be removed completely from the next release. So make sure to switch to using Label instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the Label was introduced, the Environment becomes a subset of the Label concept. So we decided to deprecate the Environment concept from `v0.24.0`. Even though it is still displayed on the web console, it will be removed completely from the next release. So make sure to switch to using Label instead.
```

The deployment configuration file (`.pipe.yaml`) has been deprecated as well. Please use the application configuration file instead, it has the same format but with some new fields such as `name`, `description`, and `labels`. By using this new config file, all application information can be stored and managed in your Git repository. The new config file also gives PipeCD the ability to detect unregistered applications in Git repository to suggest users to add on the control plane.

Basically, a deployment configuration file can be migrated to be an application configuration file just by adding the `name` field.

```yaml
# Old deployment configuration file
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: KubernetesApp
spec:
  ...
```

```yaml
# New application configuration file
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: KubernetesApp
spec:
  name: example # Add this field.
  labels:
    env: prod
    team: product
  ...
```

> If you are having many applications, you can use this [pipectl command](/docs/user-guide/command-line-tool/#migrating-deployment-configuration-files-to-application-configuration-files) to migrate a bunch of your files seamlessly.

Reviewer: nits, I think instead of `/docs` should use `/docs-v0.x.x` to specify the version containing the migration command since this command may be deleted later and the docs can be removed.

Author: Nice idea.

> If you are having many applications, you can use this [pipectl command](/docs/user-guide/command-line-tool/#migrating-deployment-configuration-files-to-application-configuration-files) to migrate a bunch of your files seamlessly.

Author: ```suggestion
If you are having many applications, you can use this [pipectl command](/docs-v0.25.x/user-guide/command-line-tool/#migrating-deployment-configuration-files-to-application-configuration-files) to migrate a bunch of your files seamlessly.
```
